A PDF version is available. This is a Canadian version. (info)  
A PDF version is available. This is a print on demand version. (info)  
This book has a collection  for ordering a
printed copy of this book for a fee. (edit) (help)
This book is intended for intermediate readers.
This book covers in depth all topics required for a standard first aid course, and also includes a section on advanced topics. The basics covered include:
Primary assessment and cardiopulmonary resuscitation or CPRLegal aspects of first aid.Including negligence and consentCirculatory emergencies.Such as bleeding, heart attack and strokeRespiratory emergencies.Such as asthma and anaphylactic shockInternal injuries.Such as broken bones, chest injuries, and internal bleedingBurns, seizures,and other medical conditionsIn the chapter on advanced topics, you'll find information about oxygen administration and airway management, automated external defibrillator or AED operation,wilderness techniques,additional assessments,and triage.
The intended audience is taking a first aid course from a certified instructor, and can read at a high school level. Please be advised that there are some images of the injuries and conditions discussed.
This is a wiki, so you can edit this book; and if you find a mistake, then please be bold and fix it. If you want to leave comments, please do so on the talk page for that module. If you want to help out even more, take a look through What needs to be done? for tasks that still need to be done, or start with whatever tasks you stumble across.
Table of Contents[edit]Introduction —
Issues in Providing Care —
Primary Assessment & Basic Life Support —
Secondary Assessment —
Circulatory Emergencies
Respiratory Emergencies —
Soft Tissue Injuries —
Bone & Joint Injuries —
Environmental Illness & Injury
Medical Conditions & Poisoning —
Advanced Topics —
Appendices —
Meta content
Authors —
How To Read This Book —
What is First Aid? —
First Aid Training
Consent —
Protective Precautions —
Legal Liability —
Critical Incident Stress & Victim Death —
Abuse & Neglect
Emergency First Aid & Initial Action Steps —
A for Airway —
B for Breathing —
C for Compressions —
D for Deadly Bleeding
Head-to-toe —
History —
Vitals
External Bleeding —
Internal Bleeding —
Heart Attack & Angina —
Stroke & TIA —
Shock
Burns —
Electrocution —
Chest & Abdominal Injuries
Anaphylactic Shock —
Asthma & Hyperventilation —
Obstructed Airway
Musculoskeletal Injuries —
Immobilization —
Head & Facial Injuries —
Suspected Spinal Injury
Heat-Related Illness & Injury —
Cold-Related Illness & Injury —
Pressure-Related Illness & Injury
Diabetes —
Seizures —
Mental Health Emergency —
Poisoning
Wilderness First Aid —
Marine First Aid —
Extended Assessment
Airway Management —
Oxygen Administration —
Automated External Defibrillation —
Triage
Appendix A: Glossary —
Appendix B: Behind the Scenes
Appendix C: Sources —
Appendix D: Notes for First Aid Instructors —
Appendix E: First Aid Kits —
Appendix F:Emergency Telephone Numbers
Sample first aid report —
List of Images
What needs to be done?
Manual of Style —
Book category — 
Template category — 
Subject page
PDF versions: for Canada() — print on demand()

