Wikipedia has related information at Latin
Look up Index:Latin in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
A printable version of Latin is available.  (edit it)
A PDF version is available.  (info)  

This is an elementary Latin course accompanied with a detailed grammar based upon Kennedy's Public School Latin Grammar designed to introduce one to the world of classical languages.  A basic understanding of grammatical terminology would be helpful; however, it is not required.  Basic definitions of terms will be explained in Lessons 1 and 2, and later elaborated as needed.
For detailed explanations and examples of English grammatical terms, please consult the English Grammar textbook.  However, Latin grammar is quite different from that of English, and thus it requires different grammatical terms to explain the concepts.  These will be taught as needed.
Contents1 Note2 A Progressive Latin Grammar and Exercises3 Spoken Latin4 Appendices5 About the Book6 External linksNote[edit]Parts of this book may have been edited by people who do not speak English as their first language. All Wikibooks are written in the particular English dialect of the writer, which may not be standard usage. If you see something particularly unclear, please feel free to correct it, but please alter this article in a constructive manner.
This book will attempt to teach the reader Latin from the ground up. Please read the Introduction carefully, as it introduces the concept of a stem. As is typical in many other languages, the infinitive stem (present tense, active voice) is used for conjugating verbs. [The introduction of additional information in parentheses is done simply to avoid confusing a student who has already had exposure to Latin.]
If something doesn't make sense to you delete what you don't understand, e.g., "grade 12 [grade]  American [system] revert?" The "revert" keyword allows your editors to know that you are not a skilled editor but are just trying to learn, and are confused. Your changes are not permanent.
Edit this book responsibly:
As this is a textbook, readers will want denotational indication of macrons. If you do not know how to do this in HTML, please refer to Wikipedia's article on the topic.Nouns should be given in the nominative and genitive singular following the standard practice of Latin dictionaries. If it is necessary to indicate the case of the declension then the abbreviations "nom." and "gen." may be used. Different pages may use their own layout rules, but they should be left-justified and clear to the student.Check with other commercial textbooks and study guides to see if what you are doing is factually accurate and pedagogically sound. Wikibooks trusts you to make that judgment on your own, but this is a book - not an article. A person who is either bold or rash might make an error or mistake in layout or explanation that will take a long time to find and correct.A Progressive Latin Grammar and Exercises[edit]Introduction to the origins and structure of Latin:
How to study a language on the Internet and in your headSpecial consideration: How to use a Wikibook when progress may mean inaccuracyGrammatical Introduction to Latin The origin and structure of LatinBasic Grammar Grammatical introduction.Chapter 1: Basic Sentences
The Nominative Case  Create basic Latin sentences, with adjectives and the verb "to be"Adjectives  A short introduction to adjectives Present indicative active construct An introduction to verbs, and the present tense of regular verbs.Adverbs & Prepositions More on adjectives, and an overview of adverbs and prepositions.The Accusative Case  Learn to create sentences with transitive verbs.Pronouns Summary of PronounsChapter 1 VerseChapter 2: Complex Sentences
The Imperfect Tense The imperfect tense, working in the past.The Genitive and Dative Cases  Indicate indirect objects and possession.The Future Tense Verbs in the FutureThe Ablative and Vocative Case  Indicate an ablative construct / directly address someoneThe 3rd, 4th and 5th declensions All remaining categories of nounsIrregular Verbs & Revision Review of all five declensions and the conjugation of present imperfect indicative active verbs.Translation Exercise Translate a passage.Imperfect and Future indicative active constructsChapter 2 VerseChapter 3: Advanced Sentences
Imperatives Ordering or Telling People What to Do.Active v. Passive VerbsIndicative Passive Verbs  Present, imperfect, and future passives.Principal Parts Principal verb parts and verb conjugation.The Perfect Indicative Tense The uses and formation of the perfect indicative tense.The Perfect Indicative Passive Verbs  Use the perfect with the passives.Future and Past Perfect Indicative TensesAblative Absolute and Accusative Infinitive ConstructionsChapter 3 VerseChapter 4: The Subjunctive Mood and Complex Sentences
The Subjunctive Mood  Subjunctive vs. Indicative moods, conjugate the Subjunctive present.The Uses of the SubjunctiveThe Subjunctive Imperfect  Conjugation and uses of the imperfect subjunctive.The Subjunctive Passive Verbs  Conjugate the present and imperfect subjunctives.The Subjunctive Perfects The perfect endings for the Subjunctive.The Subjunctive Perfect Passive Verbs  Perfect auxiliary verbs for the subjunctive passives.The Gerund and Participles Verbal Nouns.Conditional Clauses Conditional sentences in the indicative and subjunctive moodRevision Review of all five declensions and the conjugation of the active subjunctive verbs.Idioms An overview of idiomatic phrases used in Latin.Translation Translate a passage from the Vulgate Bible.  Bust of Julius CaesarChapter 4 VerseVerse from the GospelsChapter 5: Review
Revision Review of all five noun and adjective declensions.Revision Revise work on all verb conjugations and learned forms.Translation Translate a passage from Catullus.Exercises Review of subjunctive forms.Exercises Review of passive forms.TranslationRevision  Ideas and memory tools for language patterns in conjugation and declining.Chapter 5 VersePoem about LatinSpoken Latin[edit]This is a test chapter to teach those who wish to learn Latin which they can use in their daily lives.
Spoken Latin WikibookAppendices[edit]About the Book[edit]AuthorsPlease leave ideas for additional chapters on the talk page.
External links[edit]An excellent textbook for beginners is available for free at Latin for Beginners by B. L. D'Ooge, with the Answer Key here on Wikibooks.Whitaker's Words is a Latin dictionary DOS program and is available for free at Whitaker's Words. William A. Whitaker (1936–2010) was a colonel in the United States Air Force.A valuable Latin grammar reference is available for free at A Latin Grammar for Schools and Colleges by Albert Harkness.